Indian Institute of Information Technology Senapati, Manipur (IIITM) is an institution under MHRD, Govt. of India. IIIT Senapati, Manipur was established in 2015 in order to develop Manipur as preferred destination for Information Technology (IT) related manpower and industry. This shall enable Manipur to gear up for providing IT related services as well as high-quality Research & Development in IT. IIIT Senapati, Manipur offers B.Tech programmes in two disciplines, Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) and Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) from its transit campus located at Mantripukhri, Opposite of Software Technology Park, Near CRPF Camp in Imphal. The campus holds classrooms, labs, faculty rooms, seminar hall, play ground, faculty quarters, guest house and administrative offices. IIIT Senapati, Manipur permanent campus will come up at Ningthoupham village, Mayangkhang, Senapati district of Manipur.

IIIT Senapati, Manipur is one of the 20 IIITs set up by the Central Govt. in PPP mode. A Bill (Act of Parliament) to declare all the PPP-IIITs (including IIIT Senapati, Manipur) as Institutes of National Importance has been placed before the Lok Sabha.

IIIT Senapati, Manipur strives to be attentive to academic needs of every student. Classes are conveniently scheduled between 8 A.M. to 4:30 P. M. Every class room is well maintained and has projection facilities. An Institute-wide wi-fi system provides Internet access throughout the Institute.

IIIT Senapati, Manipur is mentored by IIT Guwahati, Interim Director Prof. Amarendra Kumar Das is actively working and the transit complex is provided with all required infrastructure for overall development of the institute. IIIT Senapati, Manipur is also looking for private/industry partner for the institute.

It is also mandated to start Design and Manufacturing disciplines to positively contribute to Govt. of India mission of Act East and creating manufacturing hub in South East Asia. To contribute to Human Resource development of its neighboring countries, IIIT Senapati, Manipur will be looking for opportunities to spread IT education to Myanmar by providing required facilities to students of that country to study in IIIT Senapati, Manipur through bi-lateral agreements.
